# NSQ Changelog

## Binaries

### 0.2.26 - 2014-02-06

**Upgrading from 0.2.25**: No backwards incompatible changes.

IMPORTANT: this is a quick bug-fix release to address a regression identified in `0.2.25` where
`statsd` prefixes were broken when using the default (or any) prefix that contained a `%s` for
automatic host replacement.

 * #303 - fix `nsqd` `--statsd-prefix` when using `%s` host replacement

### 0.2.25 - 2014-02-05

**Upgrading from 0.2.24**: No backwards incompatible changes.

This release adds several commonly requested features.

First, thanks to [@elubow](https://twitter.com/elubow) you can now configure your clients to sample
the stream they're subscribed to. To read more about the details of the implementation see #286 and
the original discussion in #223.  Eric also contributed an improvement to `nsq_tail` to add
the ability to tail the last `N` messages and exit.

We added config file support ([TOML](https://github.com/mojombo/toml/blob/master/README.md)) for
`nsqd`, `nsqlookupd`, and `nsqadmin` - providing even more deployment flexibility. Example configs
are in the `contrib` directory. Command line arguments override the equivalent option in the config
file.

We added the ability to pause a *topic* (it is already possible to pause individual *channels*).
This functionality stops all message flow from topic to channel for *all channels* of a topic,
queueing at the topic level. This enables all kinds of interesting possibilities like atomic
channel renames and trivial infrastructure wide operations.

Finally, we now compile the static assets used by `nsqadmin` into the binary, simplifying
deployment.  This means that `--template-dir` is now deprecated and will be removed in a future
release and you can remove the templates you previously deployed and maintained.

New Features / Enhancements:

 * #286 - add client `IDENTIFY` option to sample a % of messages
 * #279 - add TOML config file support to `nsqd`, `nsqlookupd`, and `nsqadmin`
 * #263 - add ability to pause a topic
 * #291 - compile templates into `nsqadmin` binary
 * #285/#288 - `nsq_tail` support for `-n #` to get recent # messages
 * #287/#294 - display client `IDENTIFY` attributes in `nsqadmin` (sample rate, TLS, compression)
 * #189/#296 - add client user agent to `nsqadmin``
 * #297 - add `nsq_to_nsq` JSON message filtering options

### 0.2.24 - 2013-12-07

**Upgrading from 0.2.23**: No backwards incompatible changes. However, as you'll see below, quite a
few command line flags to the utility apps (`nsq_to_http`, `nsq_to_file`, `nsq_to_http`) were
deprecated and will be removed in the next release. Please use this release to transition over to
the new ones.

NOTE: we are now publishing additional binaries built against go1.2

The most prominent addition is the tracking of end-to-end message processing percentiles. This
measures the amount of time it's taking from `PUB` to `FIN` per topic/channel. The percentiles are
configurable and, because there is *some* overhead in collecting this data, it can be turned off
entirely. Please see [the section in the docs](http://bitly.github.io/nsq/components/nsqd.html) for
implementation details.

Additionally, the utility apps received comprehensive support for all configurable reader options
(including compression, which was previously missing). This necessitated a bit of command line flag
cleanup, as follows:

#### nsq_to_file

 * deprecated `--gzip-compression` in favor of `--gzip-level`
 * deprecated `--verbose` in favor of `--reader-opt=verbose`

#### nsq_to_http

 * deprecated `--throttle-fraction` in favor of `--sample`
 * deprecated `--http-timeout-ms` in favor of `--http-timeout` (which is a
   *duration* flag)
 * deprecated `--verbose` in favor of `--reader-opt=verbose`
 * deprecated `--max-backoff-duration` in favor of
   `--reader-opt=max_backoff_duration=X`

#### nsq_to_nsq

 * deprecated `--verbose` in favor of `--reader-opt=verbose`
 * deprecated `--max-backoff-duration` in favor of
   `--reader-opt=max_backoff_duration=X`

New Features / Enhancements:

 * #280 - add end-to-end message processing latency metrics
 * #267 - comprehensive reader command line flags for utilities

### 0.2.23 - 2013-10-21

**Upgrading from 0.2.22**: No backwards incompatible changes.

We now use [godep](https://github.com/kr/godep) in order to achieve reproducible builds with pinned
dependencies.  If you're on go1.1+ you can now just use `godep get github.com/bitly/nsq/...`.

This release includes `nsqd` protocol compression feature negotiation.
[Snappy](https://code.google.com/p/snappy/) and [Deflate](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DEFLATE) are
supported, clients can choose their preferred format.

`--statsd-prefix` can now be used to modify the prefix for the `statsd` keys generated by `nsqd`.
This is useful if you want to add datacenter prefixes or remove the default host prefix.

Finally, this release includes a "bug" fix that reduces CPU usage for `nsqd` with many clients by
choosing a more reasonable default for a timer used in client output buffering.  For more details
see #236.

New Features / Enhancements:

 * #266 - use godep for reproducible builds
 * #229 - compression (Snappy/Deflate) feature negotiation
 * #241 - binary support for HTTP /mput
 * #269 - add --statsd-prefix flag

Bug Fixes:

 * #278 - fix nsqd race for client subscription cleanup (thanks @simplereach)
 * #277 - fix nsqadmin counter page
 * #275 - stop accessing simplejson internals
 * #274 - nsqd channel pause state lost during unclean restart (thanks @hailocab)
 * #236 - reduce "idle" CPU usage by 90% with large # of clients

### 0.2.22 - 2013-08-26

**Upgrading from 0.2.21**: message timestamps are now officially nanoseconds.  The protocol docs
always stated this however `nsqd` was actually sending seconds.  This may cause some compatibility
issues for client libraries/clients that were taking advantage of this field.

This release also introduces support for TLS feature negotiation in `nsqd`.  Clients can optionally
enable TLS by using the appropriate handshake via the `IDENTIFY` command. See #227.

Significant improvements were made to the HTTP publish endpoints and in flight message handling to
reduce GC pressure and eliminate memory abuse vectors. See #242, #239, and #245.

This release also includes a new utility `nsq_to_nsq` for performant, low-latency, copying of an NSQ
topic over the TCP protocol.

Finally, a whole suite of debug HTTP endpoints were added (and consolidated) under the
`/debug/pprof` namespace. See #238, #248, and #252. As a result `nsqd` now supports *direct*
profiling via Go's `pprof` tool, ie:

    $ go tool pprof --web http://ip.address:4151/debug/pprof/heap

New Features / Enhancements:

 * #227 - TLS feature negotiation
 * #238/#248/#252 - support for more HTTP debug endpoints
 * #256 - `nsqadmin` single node view (with GC/mem graphs)
 * #255 - `nsq_to_nsq` utility for copying a topic over TCP
 * #230 - `nsq_to_http` takes `--content-type` flag (thanks @michaelhood)
 * #228 - `nsqadmin` displays tombstoned topics in the `/nodes` list
 * #242/#239/#245 - reduced GC pressure for inflight and `/mput`

Bug Fixes:

 * #260 - `tombstone_topic_producer` action in `nsqadmin` missing node info
 * #244 - fix 64bit atomic alignment issues on 32bit platforms
 * #251 - respect configured limits for HTTP publishing
 * #247 - publish methods should not allow 0 length messages
 * #231/#259 - persist `nsqd` metadata on topic/channel changes
 * #237 - fix potential memory leaks with retained channel references
 * #232 - message timestamps are now nano
 * #228 - `nsqlookupd`/`nsqadmin` would display inactive nodes in `/nodes` list
 * #216 - fix edge cases in `nsq_to_file` that caused empty files

### 0.2.21 - 2013-06-07

**Upgrading from 0.2.20**: there are no backward incompatible changes in this release.

This release introduces a significant new client feature as well as a slew of consistency and
recovery improvements to diskqueue.

First, we expanded the feature negotiation options for clients. There are many cases where you want
different output buffering semantics from `nsqd` to your client. You can now control both
output buffer size and the output buffer timeout via new fields in the `IDENTIFY` command. You can
even disable output buffering if low latency is a priority.

You can now specify a duration between fsyncs via `--sync-timeout`. This is a far better way to
manage when the process fsyncs messages to disk (vs the existing `--sync-every` which is based on #
of messages). `--sync-every` is now considered a deprecated option and will be removed in a future
release.

Finally, `0.2.20` introduced a significant regression in #176 where a topic would not write messages
to its channels. It is recommended that all users running `0.2.20` upgrade to this release. For
additional information see #217.

New Features / Enhancements:

 * #214 - add --sync-timeout for time based fsync, improve when diskqueue syncs
 * #196 - client configurable output buffering
 * #190 - nsq_tail generates a random #ephemeral channel

Bug Fixes:

 * #218/#220 - expose --statsd-interval for nsqadmin to handle non 60s statsd intervals
 * #217 - fix new topic channel creation regression from #176 (thanks @elubow)
 * #212 - dont use port in nsqadmin cookies
 * #214 - dont open diskqueue writeFile with O_APPEND
 * #203/#211 - diskqueue depth accounting consistency
 * #207 - failure to write a heartbeat is fatal / reduce error log noise
 * #206 - use broadcast address for statsd prefix
 * #205 - cleanup example utils exit

### 0.2.20 - 2013-05-13

**Upgrading from 0.2.19**: there are no backward incompatible changes in this release.

This release adds a couple of convenient features (such as adding the ability to empty a *topic*)
and continues our work to reduce garbage produced at runtime to relieve GC pressure in the Go
runtime.

`nsqd` now has two new flags to control the max value clients can use to set their heartbeat
interval as well as adjust a clients maximum RDY count. This is all set/communicated via `IDENTIFY`.

`nsqadmin` now displays `nsqd` -> `nsqlookupd` connections in the "nodes" view. This is useful for
visualizing how the topology is connected as well as situations where `--broadcast-address` is being
used incorrectly.

`nsq_to_http` now has a "host pool" mode where upstream state will be adjusted based on
successful/failed requests and for failures, upstreams will be exponentially backed off. This is an
incredibly useful routing mode.

As for bugs, we fixed an issue where "fatal" client errors were not actually being treated as fatal.
Under certain conditions deleting a topic would not clean up all of its files on disk. There was a
reported issue where the `--data-path` was not writable by the process and this was only discovered
after message flow began. We added a writability check at startup to improve feedback. Finally.
`deferred_count` was being sent as a counter value to statsd, it should be a gauge.

New Features / Enhancements:

 * #197 - nsqadmin nodes list improvements (show nsqd -> lookupd conns)
 * #192 - add golang runtime version to daemon version output
 * #183 - ability to empty a topic
 * #176 - optimizations to reduce garbage, copying, locking
 * #184 - add table headers to nsqadmin channel view (thanks @elubow)
 * #174/#186 - nsq_to_http hostpool mode and backoff control
 * #173/#187 - nsq_stat utility for command line introspection
 * #175 - add nsqd --max-rdy-count configuration option
 * #178 - add nsqd --max-heartbeat-interval configuration option

Bug Fixes:

 * #198 - fix fatal errors not actually being fatal
 * #195 - fix delete topic does not delete all diskqueue files
 * #193 - fix data race in channel requeue
 * #185 - ensure that --data-path is writable on startup
 * #182 - fix topic deletion ordering to prevent race conditions with lookupd/diskqueue
 * #179 - deferred_count as gauge for statsd
 * #173/#188/#191 - fix nsqadmin counter template error; fix nsqadmin displaying negative rates

### 0.2.19 - 2013-04-11

**Upgrading from 0.2.18**: there are no backward incompatible changes in this release.

This release is a small release that introduces one major client side feature and resolves one
critical bug.

`nsqd` clients can now configure their own heartbeat interval. This is important because as of
`0.2.18` *all* clients (including producers) received heartbeats by default. In certain cases
receiving a heartbeat complicated "simple" clients that just wanted to produce messages and not
handle asynchronous responses. This gives flexibility for the client to decide how it would like
behave.

A critical bug was discovered where emptying a channel would leave client in-flight state
inconsistent (it would not zero) which limited deliverability of messages to those clients.

New Features / Enhancements:

 * #167 - 'go get' compatibility
 * #158 - allow nsqd clients to configure (or disable) heartbeats

Bug Fixes:

 * #171 - fix race conditions identified testing against go 1.1 (scheduler improvements)
 * #160 - empty channel left in-flight count inconsistent (thanks @dmarkham)

### 0.2.18 - 2013-02-28

**Upgrading from 0.2.17**: all V2 clients of nsqd now receive heartbeats (previously only clients
that subscribed would receive heartbeats, excluding TCP *producers*).

**Upgrading from 0.2.16**: follow the notes in the 0.2.17 changelog for upgrading from 0.2.16.

Beyond the important note above regarding heartbeats this release includes `nsq_tail`, an extremely
useful utility application that can be used to introspect a topic on the command line. If statsd is
enabled (and graphite in `nsqadmin`) we added the ability to retrieve rates for display in
`nsqadmin`.

We resolved a few critical issues with data consistency in `nsqlookupd` when channels and topics are
deleted. First, deleting a topic would cause that producer to disappear from `nsqlookupd` for all
topics. Second, deleting a channel would cause that producer to disappear from the topic list in
`nsqlookupd`.

New Features / Enhancements:

 * #131 - all V2 nsqd clients get heartbeats
 * #154 - nsq_tail example reader
 * #143 - display message rates in nsqadmin

Bug Fixes:

 * #148 - store tombstone data per registration in nsqlookupd
 * #153 - fix large graph formulas in nsqadmin
 * #150/#151 - fix topics disappearing from nsqlookupd when channels are deleted

### 0.2.17 - 2013-02-07

**Upgrading from 0.2.16**: IDENTIFY and SUB now return success responses (they previously only
responded to errors). The official Go and Python libraries are forwards/backwards compatible with
this change however 3rd party client libraries may not be.

**Upgrading from 0.2.15**: in #132 deprecations in SUB were removed as well as support for the old,
line oriented, `nsqd` metadata file format. For these reasons you should upgrade to `0.2.16` first.

New Features / Enhancements:

 * #119 - add TOUCH command to nsqd
 * #142 - add --broadcast-address flag to nsqd/nsqadmin (thanks @dustismo)
 * #135 - atomic MPUB
 * #133 - improved protocol fatal error handling and responses; IDENTIFY/SUB success responses
 * #118 - switch nsqadmin actions to POST and require confirmation
 * #117/#147 - nsqadmin action POST notifications
 * #122 - configurable msg size limits
 * #132 - deprecate identify in SUB and old nsqd metadata file format

Bug Fixes:

 * #144 - empty channel should clear inflight/deferred messages
 * #140 - fix MPUB protocol documentation
 * #139 - fix nsqadmin handling of legacy statsd prefixes for graphs
 * #138/#145 - fix nsqadmin action redirect handling
 * #134 - nsqd to nsqlookupd registration fixes
 * #129 - nsq_to_file gzip file versioning
 * #106 - nsqlookupd topic producer tombstones
 * #100 - sane handling of diskqueue read errors
 * #123/#125 - fix notify related exit deadlock

### 0.2.16 - 2013-01-07

**Upgrading from 0.2.15**: there are no backward incompatible changes in this release.

However, this release introduces the `IDENTIFY` command (which supersedes sending
metadata along with `SUB`) for clients of `nsqd`.  The old functionality will be
removed in a future release.

 * #114 persist paused channels through restart
 * #121 fix typo preventing compile of bench_reader (thanks @datastream)
 * #120 fix nsqd crash when empty command is sent (thanks @michaelhood)
 * #115 nsq_to_file --filename-format --datetime-format parameter and fix
 * #101 fix topic/channel delete operations ordering
 * #98 nsqadmin fixes when not using lookupd
 * #90/#108 performance optimizations / IDENTIFY protocol support in nsqd. For
   a single consumer of small messages (< 4k) increases throughput ~400% and
   reduces # of allocations ~30%.
 * #105 strftime compatible datetime format
 * #103 nsq_to_http handler logging
 * #102 compatibility with Go tip
 * #99 nsq_to_file --gzip flag
 * #95 proxy graphite requests through nsqadmin
 * #93 fix nqd API response for no topics
 * #92 graph rendering options
 * #86 nsq_to_http Content-Length headers
 * #89 gopkg doc updates
 * #88 move pynsq to it's own repo
 * #81/#87 reader improvements / introduced MPUB. Fix bug for mem-queue-size < 10
 * #76 statsd/graphite support
 * #75 administrative ability to create topics and channels

### 0.2.15 - 2012-10-25

 * #84 fix lookupd hanging on to ephemeral channels w/ no producers
 * #82 add /counter page to nsqadmin
 * #80 message size benchmark
 * #78 send Content-Length for nsq_to_http requests
 * #57/#83 documentation updates

### 0.2.14 - 2012-10-19

 * #77 ability to pause a channel (includes bugfix for message pump/diskqueue)
 * #74 propagate all topic changes to lookupd
 * #65 create binary releases

### 0.2.13 - 2012-10-15

 * #70 deadlined nsq_to_http outbound requests
 * #69/#72 improved nsq_to_file sync strategy
 * #58 diskqueue metadata bug and refactoring

### 0.2.12 - 2012-10-10

 * #63 consolidated protocol V1 into V2 and fixed PUB bug
 * #61 added a makefile for simpler building
 * #55 allow topic/channel names with `.`
 * combined versions for all binaries

### 0.2.7 - 0.2.11

 * Initial public release.

## go-nsq Client Library

 * #264 moved **go-nsq** to its own [repository](https://github.com/bitly/go-nsq)

## pynsq Python Client Library

 * #88 moved **pynsq** to its own [repository](https://github.com/bitly/pynsq)
