---
title: FAQ
layout: post
category: overview
permalink: /overview/faq.html
---

#### Deployment

 * **What is the recommended topology for `nsqd`?**

    We strongly recommend running an `nsqd` alongside any service(s) that *produce*
    messages.

    `nsqd` is a relatively lightweight process with a bounded memory footprint,
    which makes it well suited to *"playing nice with others"*.

    This pattern aids in structuring message flow as a consumption problem
    rather than a production one.

    Another benefit is that it essentially forms an independent, sharded, silo of
    data for that topic on a given host.

    NOTE: this isn't an *absolute* requirement though, it's just simpler (see
    question below).

 * **Why can't `nsqlookupd` be used by producers to find where to publish to?**

    NSQ promotes a *consumer-side* discovery model that alleviates the upfront
    configuration burden of having to tell consumers where to find the topic(s)
    they need.

    However, it does not provide any means to solve the problem of where a service
    should publish *to*. This is a chicken and egg problem, the topic does not
    exist prior to the first publish.

    By co-locating `nsqd` (see question above), you sidestep this problem entirely
    (your service simply publishes to the local `nsqd`) and allow NSQ's runtime
    discovery system to work naturally.

 * **I just want to use `nsqd` as a work queue on a single node, is that
   a suitable use case?**

    Yep, `nsqd` can run standalone just fine.

    `nsqlookupd` is beneficial in larger distributed environments.

 * **How many `nsqlookupd` should I run?**

    Typically only a few depending on your cluster size, number of `nsqd`
    nodes and consumers, and your desired fault tolerance.

    3 or 5 works really well for deployments involving up to several hundred
    hosts and thousands of consumers.

    `nsqlookupd` nodes do **not** require coordination to answer queries.  The
    metadata in the cluster is *eventually consistent*.

#### Publishing

 * **Do I need a client library to publish messages?**

    NO! Just use the HTTP endpoints for publishing (`/pub` and `/mpub`).  It's
    simple, it's easy, and it's ubiquitous in almost any programming environment.

    In fact, the overwhelming majority of NSQ deployments use HTTP to publish.

 * **Why *force* a client to handle responses to the TCP protocol's `PUB` and
   `MPUB` commands?**

    We believe NSQ's default mode of operation should prioritize safety and we
    wanted the protocol to be simple and consistent.

 * **When can a `PUB` or `MPUB` fail?**

    1. The topic name is not formatted correctly (to character/length
       restrictions). See the [topic and channel name spec][spec_names].
    2. The message is too large (this limit is exposed as a parameter to `nsqd`).
    3. The topic is in the middle of being deleted.
    4. `nsqd` is in the middle of cleanly exiting.
    5. Any client connection-related failures during the publish.

    (1) and (2) should be considered programming errors. (3) and (4) are rare and (5)
    is a natural part of any TCP based protocol.

 * **How can I mitigate scenario (3) above?**

    Deleting topics is a relatively infrequent operation.  If you need to delete
    a topic, orchestrate the timing such that publishes eliciting topic creations
    will never be performed until a sufficient amount of time has elapsed since
    deletion.

#### Design and Theory

 * **How do you recommend naming topics and channels?**

    A topic name should describe the *data in the stream*.

    A channel name should describe the *work performed* by its consumers.

    For example, good topic names are `encodes`, `decodes`, `api_requests`,
    `page_views` and good channel names are `archive`, `analytics_increment`,
    `spam_analysis`.

 * **Are there any limitations to the number of topics and channels a single
   `nsqd` can support?**

    There are no *built-in* limits imposed.  It is only limited by the memory
    and CPU of the host `nsqd` is running on (per-client CPU usage was greatly
    reduced in [issue #236][issue_236]).

 * **How are new topics announced to the cluster?**

    The first `PUB` or `SUB` to a topic will create the topic on an `nsqd`.  Topic
    metadata will then propagate to the configured `nsqlookupd`.  Other readers
    will discover this topic by periodically querying the `nsqlookupd`.

 * **Can NSQ do RPC?**

    Yes, it's *possible*, but NSQ was not designed with this use case in mind.

    We intend to publish some docs on how this could be structured but in the
    meantime reach out if you're interested.

#### pynsq Specific

 * **Why are you forcing me to use Tornado?**

    `pynsq` was originally intended as a consumer-focussed library and consuming
    the NSQ protocol is far simpler to implement in Python with an asynchronous
    framework (notably due to NSQ's push oriented protocol).

    Tornado's API is simple and performs reasonably well.

 * **Is the Tornado IOLoop *required* to publish?**

    No, `nsqd` exposes HTTP endpoints (`/pub` and `/mpub`) for dead-simple
    programming language agnostic publishing.

    If you're worried about the overhead of HTTP, don't be.  Additionally,
    `/mpub` reduces the overhead of HTTP by publishing in bulk (atomically!).

 * **When would I want to use `Writer` then?**

    When high performance and low overhead is a priority.

    `Writer` uses the TCP protcol's `PUB` and `MPUB` commands which have less
    overhead compared to their HTTP counterparts.

 * **What if I just want to "fire and forget" (I can tolerate message loss!)?**

    Use `Writer` and don't specify a callback to the publish method.

    NOTE: this *only* has the effect of simpler client side code, behind the scenes
    `pynsq` still has to handle the response from `nsqd` (i.e. there isn't
    a *performance* benefit of doing this).

Special thanks to Dustin Oprea ([@DustinOprea][dustin_oprea_twitter]) for kickstarting this FAQ.

[issue_236]: https://github.com/bitly/nsq/pull/236
[spec_names]: {{ site.baseurl }}/clients/tcp_protocol_spec.html#notes
[dustin_oprea_twitter]: https://twitter.com/DustinOprea
