---
title:  Docker
layout: post
category: deployment
permalink: /deployment/docker.html
---

This post details how to deploy and run the nsq binaries inside [Docker](http://www.docker.com) containers.

There is a single, minimal nsq image that contains all of the NSQ binaries. Each binary can be run
by specifying the binary as the command when running Docker. The basic format is:

    docker run nsqio/nsq /<command>

Note the `/` before the command. For example:

    docker run nsqio/nsq /nsq_to_file

### Links

* [docker](http://www.docker.com/)
* [`nsq` image](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/nsqio/nsq/)

### Run nsqlookupd

    docker pull nsqio/nsq
    docker run --name lookupd -p 4160:4160 -p 4161:4161 nsqio/nsq /nsqlookupd

### Run nsqd

First, get the docker host's ip:

    ifconfig | grep addr

Second, run the `nsqd` container:

    docker pull nsqio/nsq
    docker run --name nsqd -p 4150:4150 -p 4151:4151 \
        nsqio/nsq /nsqd \
        --broadcast-address=<host> \
        --lookupd-tcp-address=<host>:<port>

Set the `--lookupd-tcp-address` flag to the host's IP and the TCP port of previously run
`nsqlookupd`, i.e. `dockerIP:4160`:

For example, given a host IP of `172.17.42.1`:

    docker run --name nsqd -p 4150:4150 -p 4151:4151 \
        nsqio/nsq /nsqd \
        --broadcast-address=172.17.42.1 \
        --lookupd-tcp-address=172.17.42.1:4160

Note that this uses port `4160`, the port exposed when we started the `nsqlookupd` container (which
also happens to be the default port for `nsqlookupd`).

If you want to use a non-default port, change the `-p` parameter:

    docker run --name nsqlookupd -p 5160:4160 -p 5161:4161 nsqio/nsq /nsqlookupd

That will make nsqlookupd available on the docker host's IP on the ports 5160 and 5161.

### Using TLS

To use TLS with containerized NSQ binaries, you need to include the certificate file, the private key,
and the root CA file. The Docker image has a volume mount available at `/etc/ssl/certs/` available for
this purpose. Mount a host directory containing the files to the volume, then specify the files in the
command line, as usual:

    docker run -p 4150:4150 -p 4151:4151 -p 4152:4152 -v /home/docker/certs:/etc/ssl/certs \
        nsqio/nsq /nsqd \
        --tls-root-ca-file=/etc/ssl/certs/certs.crt \
        --tls-cert=/etc/ssl/certs/cert.pem \
        --tls-key=/etc/ssl/certs/key.pem \
        --tls-required=true \
        --tls-client-auth-policy=require-verify

This will load the certificates from `/home/docker/certs` into the Docker container to use when running.

### Persisting NSQ Data

To store `nsqd` data on the host disk, use the `/data` volume as your data directory, which lets you mount
to a [data-only Docker container](https://docs.docker.com/userguide/dockervolumes/#creating-and-mounting-a-data-volume-container) 
or mount to a host-directory:

    docker run nsqio/nsq /nsqd \
        --data-path=/data
